================================================== ============     Peak Crux Points   ============== ==================================================

 Peak #0 at Sentence #773:

"There is
no doubt," he said quietly, "that there is some enormous organisation
determining what is said by this court.
In my case this includes my
arrest and the examination taking place here today, an organisation that
employs policemen who can be bribed, oafish supervisors and judges of
whom nothing better can be said than that they are not as arrogant as
some others.
This organisation even maintains a high-level judiciary
along with its train of countless servants, scribes, policemen and all
the other assistance that it needs, perhaps even executioners and
torturers--I'm not afraid of using those words.
And what, gentlemen, is
the purpose of this enormous organisation.
Its purpose is to arrest
innocent people and wage pointless prosecutions against them which, as
in my case, lead to no result.
How are we to avoid those in office
becoming deeply corrupt when everything is devoid of meaning?
That is
impossible, not even the highest judge would be able to achieve that for
himself.
That is why policemen try to steal the clothes off the back of
those they arrest, that is why supervisors break into the homes of
people they do not know, that is why innocent people are humiliated in
front of crowds rather than being given a proper trial.
The policemen
only talked about the warehouses where they put the property of those
they arrest, I would like to see these warehouses where the hard won
possessions of people under arrest is left to decay, if, that is, it's
not stolen by the thieving hands of the warehouse workers."
K. WAS INTERRUPTED BY A SCREECHING FROM THE FAR END OF THE HALL, HE
SHADED HIS EYES TO SEE THAT FAR, AS THE DULL LIGHT OF DAY MADE THE SMOKE
WHITISH AND HARD TO SEE THROUGH.
It was the washerwoman whom K. had
recognised as a likely source of disturbance as soon as she had entered.
It was hard to see now whether it was her fault or not.
K. could only
see that a man had pulled her into a corner by the door and was pressing
himself against her.
But it was not her who was screaming, but the man,
he had opened his mouth wide and looked up at the ceiling.
A small
circle had formed around the two of them, the visitors near him in the
gallery seemed delighted that the serious tone K. had introduced into
the gathering had been disturbed in this way.
K.'s first thought was to
run over there, and he also thought that everyone would want to bring
things back into order there or at least to make the pair leave the
room, but the first row of people in front of him stayed were they were,
no-one moved and no-one let K. through.
On the contrary, they stood in
his way, old men held out their arms in front of him and a hand from
somewhere--he did not have the time to turn round--took hold of his
collar.
K., by this time, had forgotten about the pair, it seemed to him
that his freedom was being limited as if his arrest was being taken
seriously, and, without any thought for what he was doing, he jumped
down from the podium.
Now he stood face to face with the crowd.


 Peak #1 at Sentence #1029:

"Well you're facing a charge, aren't you," said the usher.
"Yes, but that's all the more reason for me to be afraid.
Even if he has
no influence on the outcome of the trial he probably has some on the
initial examination."
"Yes, exactly," said the usher, as if K.'s view
had been just as correct as his own.
"Only we don't usually get any
trials heard here with no hope at all."
"I am not of the same opinion,"
said K., "although that ought not to prevent me from dealing with the
student if the opportunity arises."
"I would be very grateful to you,"
said the usher of the court, somewhat formally, not really seeming to
believe that his highest wish could be fulfilled.
"Perhaps," continued
K., "perhaps there are some other officials of yours here, perhaps all
of them, who would deserve the same."
"Oh yes, yes," said the usher, as
if this was a matter of course.
THEN HE LOOKED AT K. TRUSTINGLY WHICH,
DESPITE ALL HIS FRIENDLINESS, HE HAD NOT DONE UNTIL THEN, AND ADDED,
"THEY'RE ALWAYS REBELLING."
But the conversation seemed to have become a
little uncomfortable for him, as he broke it off by saying, "now I have
to report to the office.
Would you like to come with me?"
"There's
nothing for me to do there," said K. "You'd be able to have a look at
it.
No-one will take any notice of you."
"Is it worth seeing then?"
asked K. hesitatingly, although he felt very keen to go with him.
"Well," said the usher, "I thought you'd be interested in it."
"Alright
then," said K. finally, "I'll come with you."
And, quicker than the
usher himself, he ran up the steps.


 Peak #2 at Sentence #1333:

At the door, however, both
of them had to step back as it opened and Captain Lanz entered.
This was
the first time that K. had seen him close up.
He was a large man of
about forty with a tanned, fleshy face.
He bowed slightly, intending it
also for K., and then went over to Miss Montag and deferentially kissed
her hand.
He was very elegant in the way he moved.
The courtesy he
showed towards Miss Montag made a striking contrast with the way she had
been treated by K. Nonetheless, Miss Montag did not seem to be cross
with K. as it even seemed to him that she wanted to introduce the
captain.
K. however, did not want to be introduced, he would not have
been able to show any sort of friendliness either to Miss Montag or to
the captain, the kiss on the hand had, for K., bound them into a group
which would keep him at a distance from Miss Bürstner whilst at the same
time seeming to be totally harmless and unselfish.
K. thought, however,
that he saw more than that, he thought he also saw that Miss Montag had
chosen a means of doing it that was good, but two-edged.
She exaggerated
the importance of the relationship between K. and Miss Bürstner, and
above all she exaggerated the importance of asking to speak with her and
she tried at the same time to make out that K. was exaggerating
everything.
SHE WOULD BE DISAPPOINTED, K. DID NOT WANT TO EXAGGERATE
ANYTHING, HE WAS AWARE THAT MISS BÜRSTNER WAS A LITTLE TYPIST WHO WOULD
NOT OFFER HIM MUCH RESISTANCE FOR LONG.
In doing so he deliberately took
no account of what Mrs. Grubach had told him about Miss Bürstner.
All
these things were going through his mind as he left the room with hardly
a polite word.
He wanted to go straight to his room, but a little laugh
from Miss Montag that he heard from the dining room behind him brought
him to the idea that he might prepare a surprise for the two of them,
the captain and Miss Montag.
He looked round and listened to find out if
there might be any disturbance from any of the surrounding rooms,
everywhere was quiet, the only thing to be heard was the conversation
from the dining room and Mrs. Grubach's voice from the passage leading
to the kitchen.
This seemed an opportune time, K. went to Miss
Bürstner's room and knocked gently.
There was no sound so he knocked
again but there was still no answer in reply.
Was she asleep?
Or was
she really unwell?
Or was she just pretending as she realised it could
only be K. knocking so gently?


 Peak #3 at Sentence #1663:

The maid was still standing by the door with the
candle; as far as could be made out, she was watching K. more than she
was watching his uncle even while the latter was still speaking about
her.
K. leant against a chair that he had pushed near to the girl.
"When
you're as ill as I am," said the lawyer, "you need to have peace.
I
don't find it depressing."
After a short pause he added, "and Leni looks
after me well, she's a good girl."
But that was not enough to persuade
K.'s uncle, he had visibly taken against his friend's carer and, even
though he did not contradict the invalid, he persecuted her with his
scowl as she went over to the bed, put the candle on the bedside table
and, leaning over the bed, made a fuss of him by tidying the pillows.
K.'s uncle nearly forgot the need to show any consideration for the man
who lay ill in bed, he stood up, walked up and down behind the carer,
and K. would not have been surprised if he had grabbed hold of her
skirts behind her and dragged her away from the bed.
K. himself looked
on calmly, he was not even disappointed at finding the lawyer unwell,
he had been able to do nothing to oppose the enthusiasm his uncle had
developed for the matter, he was glad that this enthusiasm had now been
distracted without his having to do anything about it.
His uncle,
probably simply wishing to be offensive to the lawyer's attendant, then
said, "Young lady, now please leave us alone for a while, I have some
personal matters to discuss with my friend."
DR. HULD'S CARER WAS STILL
LEANT FAR OVER THE INVALID'S BED AND SMOOTHING OUT THE CLOTH COVERING
THE WALL NEXT TO IT, SHE MERELY TURNED HER HEAD AND THEN, IN STRIKING
CONTRAST WITH THE ANGER THAT FIRST STOPPED K.'S UNCLE FROM SPEAKING AND
THEN LET THE WORDS OUT IN A GUSH, SHE SAID VERY QUIETLY, "YOU CAN SEE
THAT DR. HULD IS SO ILL THAT HE CAN'T DISCUSS ANY MATTERS AT ALL."
It
was probably just for the sake of convenience that she had repeated the
words spoken by K.'s uncle, but an onlooker might even have perceived
it as mocking him and he, of course, jumped up as if he had just been
stabbed.
"You damned ...," in the first gurglings of his excitement his
words could hardly be understood, K. was startled even though he had
been expecting something of the sort and ran to his uncle with the
intention, no doubt, of closing his mouth with both his hands.
Fortunately, though, behind the girl, the invalid raised himself up,
K.'s uncle made an ugly face as if swallowing something disgusting and
then, somewhat calmer, said, "We have naturally not lost our senses,
not yet; if what I am asking for were not possible I would not be asking
for it.
Now please, go!"
The carer stood up straight by the bed
directly facing K.'s uncle, K. thought he noticed that with one hand she
was stroking the lawyer's hand.
"You can say anything in front of
Leni," said the invalid, in a tone that was unmistakably imploring.
"It's not my business," said K.'s uncle, "and it's not my secrets."
And
he twisted himself round as if wanting to go into no more negotiations
but giving himself a little more time to think.
"Whose business is it
then?"


 Peak #4 at Sentence #1818:

Would
she be capable of sacrificing herself for you, though?"
"No," said K.,
"she isn't gentle or friendly, and nor would she be capable of
sacrificing herself for me.
But I've never yet asked any of those things
of her.
I've never looked at this picture as closely as you."
"You can't
think much of her, then," said Leni.
"She can't be your lover after
all."
"Yes she is," said K., "I'm not going to take my word back on
that."
"Well she might be your lover now, then," said Leni, "but you
wouldn't miss her much if you lost her or if you exchanged her for
somebody else, me for instance."
"That is certainly conceivable," said
K. with a smile, "but she does have one major advantage over you, she
knows nothing about my trial, and even if she did she wouldn't think
about it.
SHE WOULDN'T TRY TO PERSUADE ME TO BE LESS UNYIELDING."
"Well
that's no advantage," said Leni.
"If she's got no advantage other than
that, I can keep on hoping.
Has she got any bodily defects?"
"'Bodily
defects'?"
asked K. "Yeah," said Leni, "as I do have a bodily defect,
just a little one.
Look."
She spread the middle and ring fingers of her
right hand apart from each other.
Between those fingers the flap of skin
connecting them reached up almost as far as the top joint of the little
finger.
In the darkness, K. did not see at first what it was she wanted
to show him, so she led his hand to it so that he could feel.


 Peak #5 at Sentence #2302:

The painter glanced through the letter and threw it
down onto the bed.
If the manufacturer had not said very clearly that
Titorelli was an acquaintance of his, a poor man who was dependent on
his charity, then it would really have been quite possible to believe
that Titorelli did not know him or at least that he could not remember
him.
This impression was augmented by the painter's asking, "Were you
wanting to buy some pictures or did you want to have yourself painted?"
K. looked at the painter in astonishment.
What did the letter actually
say?
K. had taken it as a matter of course that the manufacturer had
explained to the painter in his letter that K. wanted nothing more with
him than to find out more about his trial.
He had been far too rash in
coming here!
But now he had to give the painter some sort of answer
and, glancing at the easel, said, "Are you working on a picture
currently?"
"Yes," said the painter, and he took the shirt hanging over
the easel and threw it onto the bed after the letter.
"IT'S A PORTRAIT.
Quite a good piece of work, although it's not quite finished yet."
This
was a convenient coincidence for K., it gave him a good opportunity to
talk about the court as the picture showed, very clearly, a judge.
What's more, it was remarkably similar to the picture in the lawyer's
office, although this one showed a quite different judge, a heavy man
with a full beard which was black and bushy and extended to the sides
far up the man's cheeks.
The lawyer's picture was also an oil painting,
whereas this one had been made with pastel colours and was pale and
unclear.
But everything else about the picture was similar, as this
judge, too, was holding tightly to the arm of his throne and seemed
ominously about to rise from it.
At first K. was about to say, "He
certainly is a judge," but he held himself back for the time being and
went closer to the picture as if he wanted to study it in detail.
There
was a large figure shown in the middle of the throne's back rest which
K. could not understand and asked the painter about it.
That'll need
some more work done on it, the painter told him, and taking a pastel
crayon from a small table he added a few strokes to the edges of the
figure but without making it any clearer as far as K. could make out.
"That's the figure of justice," said the painter, finally.


 Peak #6 at Sentence #2956:

You see, the court says
that besides the petty lawyers there are also minor lawyers and great
lawyers.
This one and his colleagues are only minor lawyers, and the
difference in rank between them and the great lawyers, who I've only
ever heard about and never seen, is incomparably greater than between
the minor lawyers and the despised petty lawyers."
"The great lawyers?"
asked K. "Who are they then?
How do you contact them?"
"You've never
heard about them, then?"
said the businessman.
"There's hardly anyone
who's been accused who doesn't spend a lot of time dreaming about the
great lawyers once he's heard about them.
It's best if you don't let
yourself be misled in that way.
I DON'T KNOW WHO THE GREAT LAWYERS ARE,
AND THERE'S PROBABLY NO WAY OF CONTACTING THEM.
I don't know of any case
I can talk about with certainty where they've taken any part.
They do
defend a lot of people, but you can't get hold of them by your own
efforts, they only defend those who they want to defend.
And I don't
suppose they ever take on cases that haven't already got past the lower
courts.
Anyway, it's best not to think about them, as if you do it makes
the discussions with the other lawyers, all their advice and all that
they do manage to achieve, seem so unpleasant and useless, I had that
experience myself, just wanted to throw everything away and lay at home
in bed and hear nothing more about it.
But that, of course, would be the
stupidest thing you could do, and you wouldn't be left in peace in bed
for very long either."
"So you weren't thinking about the great lawyers
at that time?"
asked K. "Not for very long," said the businessman, and
smiled again, "you can't forget about them entirely, I'm afraid,
especially in the night when these thoughts come so easily.
But I wanted
immediate results in those days, so I went to the petty lawyers."
"Well look at you two sat huddled together!"


 Peak #7 at Sentence #3542:

"You look for
too much help from people you don't know," said the priest
disapprovingly, "and especially from women.
Can you really not see
that's not the help you need?"
"Sometimes, in fact quite often, I could
believe you're right," said K., "but not always.
Women have a lot of
power.
If I could persuade some of the women I know to work together
with me then I would be certain to succeed.
Especially in a court like
this that seems to consist of nothing but woman-chasers.
Show the
examining judge a woman in the distance and he'll run right over the
desk, and the accused, just to get to her as soon as he can."
The
priest lowered his head down to the balustrade, only now did the roof
over the pulpit seem to press him down.
What sort of dreadful weather
could it be outside?
IT WAS NO LONGER JUST A DULL DAY, IT WAS DEEPEST
NIGHT.
None of the stained glass in the main window shed even a flicker
of light on the darkness of the walls.
And this was the moment when the
man in the cassock chose to put out the candles on the main altar, one
by one.
"Are you cross with me?"
asked K. "Maybe you don't know what
sort of court it is you serve."
He received no answer.
"Well, it's just
my own experience," said K. Above him there was still silence.
"I didn't
mean to insult you," said K. At that, the priest screamed down at K.:
"Can you not see two steps in front of you?"
He shouted in anger, but it
was also the scream of one who sees another fall and, shocked and
without thinking, screams against his own will.
The two men, then, remained silent for a long time.


 ================================================== ===========     Crux Valley Points    ============ ==================================================

 Valley #0 at Sentence #566:

Sunday had been chosen as the day for
the hearings so that K. would not be disturbed in his professional work.
It was assumed that he would be in agreement with this, but if he wished
for another date then, as far as possible, he would be accommodated.
Cross-examinations could even be held in the night, for instance, but K.
would probably not be fresh enough at that time.
Anyway, as long as K.
made no objection, the hearing would be left on Sundays.
It was a matter
of course that he would have to appear without fail, there was probably
no need to point this out to him.
He would be given the number of the
building where he was to present himself, which was in a street in a
suburb well away from the city centre which K. had never been to before.
Once he had received this notice, K. hung up the receiver without giving
an answer; he had decided immediately to go there that Sunday, it was
certainly necessary, proceedings had begun and he had to face up to it,
and this first examination would probably also be the last.
He was still
standing in thought by the telephone when he heard the voice of the
deputy director behind him--he wanted to use the telephone but K. stood
in his way.
"Bad news?"
ASKED THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR CASUALLY, NOT IN ORDER
TO FIND ANYTHING OUT BUT JUST TO GET K. AWAY FROM THE DEVICE.
"No, no,"
said K., he stepped to one side but did not go away entirely.
The deputy
director picked up the receiver and, as he waited for his connection,
turned away from it and said to K., "One question, Mr. K.: Would you
like to give me the pleasure of joining me on my sailing boat on Sunday
morning?
There's quite a few people coming, you're bound to know some
of them.
One of them is Hasterer, the state attorney.
Would you like to
come along?
Do come along!"
K. tried to pay attention to what the
deputy director was saying.
It was of no small importance for him, as
this invitation from the deputy director, with whom he had never got on
very well, meant that he was trying to improve his relations with him.
It showed how important K. had become in the bank and how its second
most important official seemed to value his friendship, or at least his
impartiality.


 Valley #1 at Sentence #931:

In what way could she entrap him?
Was he not
still free, so free that he could crush the entire court whenever he
wanted, at least where it concerned him?
Could he not have that much
confidence in himself?
And her offer of help sounded sincere, and maybe
it wasn't quite worthless.
And maybe there was no better revenge against
the examining judge and his cronies than to take this woman from him and
have her for himself.
Maybe then, after much hard work writing dishonest
reports about K., the judge would go to the woman's bed late one night
and find it empty.
And it would be empty because she belonged to K.,
because this woman at the window, this lush, supple, warm body in its
sombre clothes of rough, heavy material belonged to him, totally to him
and to him alone.
Once he had settled his thoughts towards the woman in
this way, he began to find the quiet conversation at the window was
taking too long, he rapped on the podium with his knuckles, and then
even with his fist.
The student briefly looked away from the woman to
glance at K. over his shoulder but did allow himself to be disturbed, in
fact he even pressed himself close to the woman and put his arms around
her.
SHE DROPPED HER HEAD DOWN LOW AS IF LISTENING TO HIM CAREFULLY, AS
SHE DID SO HE KISSED HER RIGHT ON THE NECK, HARDLY EVEN INTERRUPTING
WHAT HE WAS SAYING.
K. saw this as confirmation of the tyranny the
student held over the woman and which she had already complained about,
he stood up and walked up and down the room.
Glancing sideways at the
student, he wondered what would be the quickest possible way to get rid
of him, and so it was not unwelcome to him when the student, clearly
disturbed by K.'s to-ing and fro-ing which K. had now developed into a
stamping up and down, said to him, "You don't have to stay here, you
know, if you're getting impatient.
You could have gone earlier, no-one
would have missed you.
In fact you should have gone, you should have
left as quickly as possible as soon as I got here."
This comment could
have caused all possible rage to break out between them, but K. also
bore in mind that this was a prospective court official speaking to a
disfavoured defendant, and he might well have been taking pride in
speaking in this way.
K. remained standing quite close to him and said
with a smile, "You're quite right, I am impatient, but the easiest way
to settle this impatience would be if you left us.
On the other hand,
if you've come here to study--you are a student, I hear--I'll be quite
happy to leave the room to you and go away with the woman.
I'm sure
you'll still have a lot of study to do before you're made into a judge.
It's true that I'm still not all that familiar with your branch of
jurisprudence but I take it it involves a lot more than speaking
roughly--and I see you have no shame in doing that extremely well."


 Valley #2 at Sentence #1278:

Mrs. Grubach
appeared quite powerless.
"Should I tell her to leave moving the rest of
her things over till later, then, Mr. K.?
If that's what you want I'll
do it immediately."
"But she has to move in with Miss Bürstner!"
said K.
"Yes," said Mrs. Grubach, without quite understanding what K. meant.
"So
she has to take her things over there."
Mrs. Grubach just nodded.
K. was
irritated all the more by this dumb helplessness which, seen from the
outside, could have seemed like a kind of defiance on her part.
He began
to walk up and down the room between the window and the door, thus
depriving Mrs. Grubach of the chance to leave, which she otherwise
probably would have done.
JUST AS K. ONCE MORE REACHED THE DOOR, SOMEONE KNOCKED AT IT.
It was the
maid, to say that Miss Montag would like to have a few words with Mr.
K., and therefore requested that he come to the dining room where she
was waiting for him.
K. heard the maid out thoughtfully, and then looked
back at the shocked Mrs. Grubach in a way that was almost contemptuous.
His look seemed to be saying that K. had been expecting this invitation
for Miss Montag for a long time, and that it was confirmation of the
suffering he had been made to endure that Sunday morning from Mrs.
Grubach's tenants.
He sent the maid back with the reply that he was on
his way, then he went to the wardrobe to change his coat, and in answer
to Mrs. Grubach's gentle whining about the nuisance Miss Montag was
causing merely asked her to clear away the breakfast things.
"But you've
hardly touched it," said Mrs. Grubach.
"Oh just take it away!"
shouted
K. It seemed to him that Miss Montag was mixed up in everything and made
it repulsive to him.
As he went through the hallway he looked at the closed door of Miss
Bürstner's room.
But it wasn't there that he was invited, but the dining
room, to which he yanked the door open without knocking.


 Valley #3 at Sentence #1398:

"Get undressed!"
he
ordered the policemen.
And to K. he said, "You shouldn't believe
everything they tell you, it's the fear of being beaten, it's already
made them a bit weak in the head.
This one here, for instance," he
pointed at Willem, "all that he told you about his career prospects,
it's just ridiculous.
Look at him, look how fat he is--the first strokes
of the cane will just get lost in all that fat.
Do you know what it is
that's made him so fat.
He's in the habit of, everyone that gets
arrested by him, he eats their breakfast.
Didn't he eat up your
breakfast?
Yeah, I thought as much.
BUT A MAN WITH A BELLY LIKE THAT
CAN'T BE MADE INTO A WHIP-MAN AND NEVER WILL BE, THAT IS QUITE OUT OF
THE QUESTION."
"There are whip-men like that," Willem insisted, who had
just released the belt of this trousers.
"No," said the whip-man,
striking him such a blow with the cane on his neck that it made him
wince, "you shouldn't be listening to this, just get undressed."
"I
would make it well worth your while if you would let them go," said K.,
and without looking at the whip-man again--as such matters are best
carried on with both pairs of eyes turned down--he pulled out his
wallet.
"And then you'd try and put in a complaint against me, too,"
said the whip-man, "and get me flogged.
No, no!"
"Now, do be
reasonable," said K., "if I had wanted to get these two punished I would
not now be trying to buy their freedom, would I?
I could simply close
the door here behind me, go home and see or hear nothing more of it.
But
that's not what I'm doing, it really is of much more importance to me to
let them go free; if I had realised they would be punished, or even that
they might be punished, I would never have named them in the first place
as they are not the ones I hold responsible.
It's the organisation
that's to blame, the high officials are the ones to blame."


 Valley #4 at Sentence #1719:

I'm at
a bit of a disadvantage now, of course, because of my illness, but I
still get visits from some good friends of mine at the court and I learn
one or two things.
It might even be that I learn more than many of those
who are in the best of health and spend all day in court.
And I'm
receiving a very welcome visit right now, for instance."
And he pointed
into a dark corner of the room.
"Where?"
asked K., almost uncouth in
his surprise.
He looked round uneasily; the little candle gave off far
too little light to reach as far as the wall opposite.
And then,
something did indeed begin to move there in the corner.
In the light of
the candle held up by K.'s uncle an elderly gentleman could be seen
sitting beside a small table.
HE HAD BEEN SITTING THERE FOR SO LONG
WITHOUT BEING NOTICED THAT HE COULD HARDLY HAVE BEEN BREATHING.
Now he
stood up with a great deal of fuss, clearly unhappy that attention had
been drawn to him.
It was as if, by flapping his hands about like short
wings, he hoped to deflect any introductions and greetings, as if he
wanted on no account to disturb the others by his presence and seemed to
be exhorting them to leave him back in the dark and forget about his
being there.
That, however, was something that could no longer be
granted him.
"You took us by surprise, you see," said the lawyer in
explanation, cheerfully indicating to the gentleman that he should come
closer, which, slowly, hesitatingly, looking all around him, but with a
certain dignity, he did.
"The office director--oh, yes, forgive me, I
haven't introduced you--this is my friend Albert K., this is his nephew,
the chief clerk Josef K., and this is the office director--so, the
office director was kind enough to pay me a visit.
It's only possible
to appreciate just how valuable a visit like this is if you've been let
into the secret of what a pile of work the office director has heaped
over him.
Well, he came anyway, we were having a peaceful chat, as far
as I was able when I'm so weak, and although we hadn't told Leni she
mustn't let anyone in as we weren't expecting anyone, we still would
rather have remained alone, but then along came you, Albert, thumping
your fists on the door, the office director moved over into the corner
pulling his table and chair with him, but now it turns out we might
have, that is, if that's what you wish, we might have something to
discuss with each other and it would be good if we can all come back
together again.--Office director ...," he said with his head on one
side, pointing with a humble smile to an armchair near the bed.
"I'm
afraid I'll only be able to stay a few minutes more," smiled the office
director as he spread himself out in the armchair and looked at the
clock.
"Business calls.


 Valley #5 at Sentence #1924:

This means they have all
the less contact with the court officials.
It is not at all necessary
for Dr. Huld to go to the court, wait in the ante-rooms for the
examining judges to turn up, if they turn up, and try to achieve
something which, according to the judges' mood is usually more apparent
than real and most often not even that.
No, K. has seen for himself that
the court officials, including some who are quite high up, come forward
without being asked, are glad to give information which is fully open or
at least easy to understand, they discuss the next stages in the
proceedings, in fact in some cases they can be won over and are quite
willing to adopt the other person's point of view.
However, when this
happens, you should never trust them too far, as however firmly they may
have declared this new point of view in favour of the defendant they
might well go straight back to their offices and write a report for the
court that says just the opposite, and might well be even harder on the
defendant than the original view, the one they insist they've been fully
dissuaded from.
And, of course, there's no way of defending yourself
from this, something said in private is indeed in private and cannot
then be used in public, it's not something that makes it easy for the
defence to keep those gentlemen's favour.
On the other hand, it's also
true that the gentlemen don't become involved with the defence--which
will of course be done with great expertise--just for philanthropic
reasons or in order to be friendly, in some respects it would be truer
to say that they, too, have it allocated to them.
This is where the
disadvantages of a court structure that, right from the start,
stipulates that all proceedings take place in private, come into force.
In normal, mediocre trials its officials have contact with the public,
and they're very well equipped for it, but here they don't; normal
trials run their course all by themselves, almost, and just need a nudge
here and there; but when they're faced with cases that are especially
difficult they're as lost as they often are with ones that are very
simple; they're forced to spend all their time, day and night, with
their laws, and so they don't have the right feel for human
relationships, and that's a serious shortcoming in cases like this.
That's when they come for advice to the lawyer, with a servant behind
them carrying the documents which normally are kept so secret.
YOU COULD
HAVE SEEN MANY GENTLEMEN AT THIS WINDOW, GENTLEMEN OF WHOM YOU WOULD
LEAST EXPECT IT, STARING OUT THIS WINDOW IN DESPAIR ON THE STREET BELOW
WHILE THE LAWYER IS AT HIS DESK STUDYING THE DOCUMENTS SO THAT HE CAN
GIVE THEM GOOD ADVICE.
And at times like that it's also possible to see
how exceptionally seriously these gentlemen take their professions and
how they are thrown into great confusion by difficulties which it's just
not in their natures to overcome.
But they're not in an easy position,
to regard their positions as easy would be to do them an injustice.
The
different ranks and hierarchies of the court are endless, and even
someone who knows his way around them cannot always tell what's going to
happen.
But even for the junior officials, the proceedings in the
courtrooms are usually kept secret, so they are hardly able to see how
the cases they work with proceed, court affairs appear in their range of
vision often without their knowing where they come from and they move on
further without their learning where they go.
So civil servants like
this are not able to learn the things you can learn from studying the
successive stages that individual trials go through, the final verdict
or the reasons for it.
They're only allowed to deal with that part of
the trial which the law allocates them, and they usually know less about
the results of their work after it's left them than the defence does,
even though the defence will usually stay in contact with the accused
until the trial is nearly at its end, so that the court officials can
learn many useful things from the defence.
Bearing all this in mind,
does it still surprise K. that the officials are irritated and often
express themselves about the litigants in unflattering ways--which is an
experience shared by everyone.
All the officials are irritated, even
when they appear calm.
This causes many difficulties for the junior
advocates, of course.


 Valley #6 at Sentence #2754:

said the businessman, "No, but
she might be in the kitchen cooking soup for the lawyer."
"Why didn't
you say that immediately?"
asked K. "I was going to take you there, but
you called me back again," answered the businessman, as if confused by
the contradictory commands.
"You think you're very clever, don't you,"
said K., "now take me there!"
K. had never been in the kitchen, it was
surprisingly big and very well equipped.
The stove alone was three
times bigger than normal stoves, but it was not possible to see any
detail beyond this as the kitchen was at the time illuminated by no more
than a small lamp hanging by the entrance.
At the stove stood Leni, in a
white apron as always, breaking eggs into a pot standing on a spirit
lamp.
"Good evening, Josef," she said with a glance sideways.
"Good
evening," said K., pointing with one hand to a chair in a corner which
the businessman was to sit on, and he did indeed sit down on it.
K.
HOWEVER WENT VERY CLOSE BEHIND LENI'S BACK, LEANT OVER HER SHOULDER AND
ASKED, "WHO IS THIS MAN?"
Leni put one hand around K. as she stirred the
soup with the other, she drew him forward toward herself and said, "He's
a pitiful character, a poor businessman by the name of Block.
Just look
at him."
The two of them looked back over their shoulders.
The
businessman was sitting on the chair that K. had directed him to, he
had extinguished the candle whose light was no longer needed and pressed
on the wick with his fingers to stop the smoke.
"You were in your
nightshirt," said K., putting his hand on her head and turning it back
towards the stove.
She was silent.
"Is he your lover?"
asked K. She was
about to take hold of the pot of soup, but K. took both her hands and
said, "Answer me!"
She said, "Come into the office, I'll explain
everything to you."


 Valley #7 at Sentence #3357:

So now, if he was ever asked to leave the office on
business or even needed to make a short business trip, however much an
honour it seemed--and tasks of this sort happened to have increased
substantially recently--there was always the suspicion that they wanted
to get him out of his office for a while and check his work, or at
least the idea that they thought he was dispensable.
It would not have
been difficult for him to turn down most of these jobs, but he did not
dare to do so because, if his fears had the slightest foundation,
turning the jobs down would have been an acknowledgement of them.
For
this reason, he never demurred from accepting them, and even when he
was asked to go on a tiring business trip lasting two days he said
nothing about having to go out in the rainy autumn weather when he had a
severe chill, just in order to avoid the risk of not being asked to go.
When, with a raging headache, he arrived back from this trip he learned
that he had been chosen to accompany the Italian business contact the
following day.
The temptation for once to turn the job down was very
great, especially as it had no direct connection with business, but
there was no denying that social obligations towards this business
contact were in themselves important enough, only not for K., who knew
quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain
his position there and that, if he failed in that, it would not help
him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming; he did not
want to be removed from his workplace for even one day, as the fear of
not being allowed back in was too great, he knew full well that the fear
was exaggerated but it still made him anxious.
However, in this case it
was almost impossible to think of an acceptable excuse, his knowledge
of Italian was not great but still good enough; the deciding factor was
that K. had earlier known a little about art history and this had
become widely known around the bank in extremely exaggerated form, and
that K. had been a member of the Society for the Preservation of City
Monuments, albeit only for business reasons.
It was said that this
Italian was an art lover, so the choice of K. to accompany him was a
matter of course.
It was a very rainy and stormy morning when K., in a foul temper at the
thought of the day ahead of him, arrived early at seven o'clock in the
office so that he could at least do some work before his visitor would
prevent him.
He had spent half the night studying a book of Italian
grammar so that he would be somewhat prepared and was very tired; his
desk was less attractive to him than the window where he had spent far
too much time sitting of late, but he resisted the temptation and sat
down to his work.
UNFORTUNATELY, JUST THEN THE SERVITOR CAME IN AND
REPORTED THAT THE DIRECTOR HAD SENT HIM TO SEE WHETHER THE CHIEF CLERK
WAS ALREADY IN HIS OFFICE; IF HE WAS, THEN WOULD HE PLEASE BE SO KIND
AS TO COME TO HIS RECEPTION ROOM AS THE GENTLEMAN FROM ITALY WAS
ALREADY THERE.
"I'll come straight away," said K. He put a small
dictionary in his pocket, took a guide to the city's tourist sites
under his arm that he had compiled for strangers, and went through the
deputy director's office into that of the director.
He was glad he had
come into the office so early and was able to be of service
immediately, nobody could seriously have expected that of him.
The
deputy director's office was, of course, still as empty as the middle
of the night, the servitor had probably been asked to summon him too
but without success.
As K. entered the reception room two men stood up
from the deep armchairs where they had been sitting.
The director gave
him a friendly smile, he was clearly very glad that K. was there, he
immediately introduced him to the Italian who shook K.'s hand
vigorously and joked that somebody was an early riser.
K. did not quite
understand whom he had in mind, it was moreover an odd expression to use
and it took K. a little while to guess its meaning.
He replied with a
few bland phrases which the Italian received once more with a laugh,
passing his hand nervously and repeatedly over his blue-grey, bushy
moustache.
This moustache was obviously perfumed, it was almost tempting
to come close to it and sniff.
When they had all sat down and begun a
light preliminary conversation, K. was disconcerted to notice that he
understood no more than fragments of what the Italian said.


 Valley #8 at Sentence #3582:

In front of
the law there is a doorkeeper.
A man from the countryside comes up to
the door and asks for entry.
But the doorkeeper says he can't let him in
to the law right now.
The man thinks about this, and then he asks if
he'll be able to go in later on.
'That's possible,' says the doorkeeper,
'but not now.'
The gateway to the law is open as it always is, and the
doorkeeper has stepped to one side, so the man bends over to try and
see in.
When the doorkeeper notices this he laughs and says, 'If you're
tempted give it a try, try and go in even though I say you can't.
Careful though: I'm powerful.
And I'm only the lowliest of all the
doormen.
BUT THERE'S A DOORKEEPER FOR EACH OF THE ROOMS AND EACH OF
THEM IS MORE POWERFUL THAN THE LAST.
It's more than I can stand just to
look at the third one.'
The man from the country had not expected
difficulties like this, the law was supposed to be accessible for
anyone at any time, he thinks, but now he looks more closely at the
doorkeeper in his fur coat, sees his big hooked nose, his long thin
tartar-beard, and he decides it's better to wait until he has
permission to enter.
The doorkeeper gives him a stool and lets him sit
down to one side of the gate.
He sits there for days and years.
He tries
to be allowed in time and again and tires the doorkeeper with his
requests.
The doorkeeper often questions him, asking about where he's
from and many other things, but these are disinterested questions such
as great men ask, and he always ends up by telling him he still can't
let him in.
The man had come well equipped for his journey, and uses
everything, however valuable, to bribe the doorkeeper.
He accepts
everything, but as he does so he says, 'I'll only accept this so that
you don't think there's anything you've failed to do.'
Over many years,
the man watches the doorkeeper almost without a break.


